
[//]: <> (Generated by gaddoc. DO NOT EDIT.)

# `json` module

## Important Note
All numeric types is unmarshaled to `gad.Decimal` type.

## Types

### encoderOptions

ToInterface Type

```go
// EncoderOptions represents the encoding options (quote, html escape) to
// Marshal any Object.
type EncoderOptions struct {
    gad.ObjectImpl
    Value      gad.Object
    Quote      bool
    EscapeHTML bool
}
```

#### encoderOptions Getters

| Selector  | Return Type |
|:----------|:------------|
|.Value     | any         |
|.Quote     | bool        |
|.EscapeHTML| bool        |

#### encoderOptions Setters

| Selector  | Value Type  |
|:----------|:------------|
|.Value     | any         |
|.Quote     | bool        |
|.EscapeHTML| bool        |

### rawMessage

ToInterface Type

```go
// RawMessage represents raw encoded json message to directly use value of
// MarshalJSON without encoding.
type RawMessage struct {
    gad.ObjectImpl
    Value []byte
}
```

#### rawMessage Getters

| Selector  | Return Type |
|:----------|:------------|
|.Value     | bytes       |

#### rawMessage Setters

| Selector  | Value Type  |
|:----------|:------------|
|.Value     | bytes       |

## Functions

`Marshal(v any) <bytes>`

Returns the JSON encoding v or error.

---

`MarshalIndent(v any, prefix str, indent str) <bytes>`

MarshalIndent is like Marshal but applies IndentCount to format the output.

---

`IndentCount(src bytes, prefix str, indent str) <bytes>`

Returns indented form of the JSON-encoded src or error.

---

`RawMessage(v bytes) <rawMessage>`

Returns a wrapped bytes to provide raw encoded JSON value to Marshal
functions.

---

`Compact(data bytes, escape bool) <bytes>`

Returns elided insignificant space characters from data or error.

---

`Quote(v any) <encoderOptions>`

Returns a wrapped object to provide Marshal functions to quote v.

---

`NoQuote(v any) <encoderOptions>`

Returns a wrapped object to provide Marshal functions not to quote while
encoding.
This can be used not to quote all array or map items.

---

`NoEscape(v any) <encoderOptions>`

Returns a wrapped object to provide Marshal functions not to escape html
while encoding.

---

`Unmarshal(p bytes; numericAsDecimal=false, floatsAsDecimal=false, intAsDecimal=false) <any>`

if numericAsDecimal is true, set floatsAsDecimal to true and intAsDecimal to true
if floatsAsDecimal is true, parses float values as decimal
if intAsDecimal is true, parses int values as decimal
Unmarshal parses the JSON-encoded p and returns the result or error.

---

`Valid(p bytes) <bool>`

Reports whether p is a valid JSON encoding.
