
[//]: <> (Generated by gaddoc. DO NOT EDIT.)

# `strings` module

## Contents

- [Functions](#functions)


## Functions

`contains(s str, substr str) <bool>`

Reports whether substr is within s.

---

`containsAny(s str, chars str) <bool>`

Reports whether any char in chars are within s.

---

`containsChar(s str, c char) <bool>`

Reports whether the char c is within s.

---

`count(s str, substr str) <int>`

Counts the number of non-overlapping instances of substr in s.

---

`equalFold(s str, t str) <bool>`

EqualFold reports whether s and t, interpreted as UTF-8 strings,
are equal under Unicode case-folding, which is a more general form of
case-insensitivity.

---

`fields(s str) <array>`

Splits the string s around each instance of one or more consecutive white
space characters, returning an array of substrings of s or an empty array
if s contains only white space.

---

`fieldsFunc(s str, f func(char) bool) <array>`

Splits the string s at each run of Unicode code points c satisfying f(c),
and returns an array of slices of s. If all code points in s satisfy
f(c) or the string is empty, an empty array is returned.

---

`hasPrefix(s str, prefix str) <bool>`

Reports whether the string s begins with prefix.

---

`hasSuffix(s str, suffix str) <bool>`

Reports whether the string s ends with prefix.

---

`index(s str, substr str) <int>`

Returns the index of the first instance of substr in s, or -1 if substr
is not present in s.

---

`indexAny(s str, chars str) <int>`

Returns the index of the first instance of any char from chars in s, or
-1 if no char from chars is present in s.

---

`indexByte(s str, c char|int) <int>`

Returns the index of the first byte value of c in s, or -1 if byte value
of c is not present in s. c's integer value must be between 0 and 255.

---

`indexChar(s str, c char) <int>`

Returns the index of the first instance of the char c, or -1 if char is
not present in s.

---

`indexFunc(s str, f func(char) bool) <int>`

Returns the index into s of the first Unicode code point satisfying f(c),
or -1 if none do.

---

`join(arr array, sep str) <str>`

Concatenates the string values of array arr elements to create a
single string. The separator string sep is placed between elements in the
resulting string.

---

`joinAnd(arr array, sep, lastSep str) <str>`

Concatenates the string values of array arr elements to create a
single string. The separator string sep is placed between elements
and lastSep is placed between non last and last elements in the
resulting string.

---

`lastIndex(s str, substr str) <int>`

Returns the index of the last instance of substr in s, or -1 if substr
is not present in s.

---

`lastIndexAny(s str, chars str) <int>`

Returns the index of the last instance of any char from chars in s, or
-1 if no char from chars is present in s.

---

`lastIndexByte(s str, c char|int) <int>`

Returns the index of byte value of the last instance of c in s, or -1
if c is not present in s. c's integer value must be between 0 and 255.

---

`lastIndexFunc(s str, f func(char) bool) <int>`

Returns the index into s of the last Unicode code point satisfying f(c),
or -1 if none do.

---

`dict(f func(char) char, s str) <str>`

Returns a copy of the string s with all its characters modified
according to the mapping function f. If f returns a negative value, the
character is dropped from the string with no replacement.

---

`padLeft(s str, padLen int[, padWith any]) <str>`

Returns a string that is padded on the left with the string `padWith` until
the `padLen` length is reached. If padWith is not given, a white space is
used as default padding.

---

`padRight(s str, padLen int[, padWith any]) <str>`

Returns a string that is padded on the right with the string `padWith` until
the `padLen` length is reached. If padWith is not given, a white space is
used as default padding.

---

`repeat(s str, count int) <str>`

Returns a new string consisting of count copies of the string s.

- If count is a negative int, it returns empty string.
- If (len(s) * count) overflows, it panics.

---

`replace(s str, old str, new str[, n int]) <str>`

Returns a copy of the string s with the first n non-overlapping instances
of old replaced by new. If n is not provided or -1, it replaces all
instances.

---

`split(s str, sep str[, n int]) <[str]>`

Splits s into substrings separated by sep and returns an array of
the substrings between those separators.

n determines the number of substrings to return:

- n < 0: all substrings (default)
- n > 0: at most n substrings; the last substring will be the unsplit remainder.
- n == 0: the result is empty array

---

`splitAfter(s str, sep str[, n int]) <[str]>`

Slices s into substrings after each instance of sep and returns an array
of those substrings.

n determines the number of substrings to return:

- n < 0: all substrings (default)
- n > 0: at most n substrings; the last substring will be the unsplit remainder.
- n == 0: the result is empty array

---

`title(s str) <str>`

Deprecated: Returns a copy of the string s with all Unicode letters that
begin words mapped to their Unicode title case.

---

`toLower(s str) <str>`

Returns s with all Unicode letters mapped to their lower case.

---

`toTitle(s str) <str>`

Returns a copy of the string s with all Unicode letters mapped to their
Unicode title case.

---

`toUpper(s str) <str>`

Returns s with all Unicode letters mapped to their upper case.

---

`toValidUTF8(s str[, replacement str]) <str>`

Returns a copy of the string s with each run of invalid UTF-8 byte
sequences replaced by the replacement string, which may be empty.

---

`trim(s str, cutset str) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s with all leading and trailing Unicode
code points contained in cutset removed.

---

`trimFunc(s str, f func(char) bool) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s with all leading and trailing Unicode
code points satisfying f removed.

---

`trimLeft(s str, cutset str) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s with all leading Unicode code points
contained in cutset removed.

---

`trimLeftFunc(s str, f func(char) bool) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s with all leading Unicode code points
c satisfying f(c) removed.

---

`trimPrefix(s str, prefix str) <str>`

Returns s without the provided leading prefix string. If s doesn't start
with prefix, s is returned unchanged.

---

`trimRight(s str, cutset str) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s with all trailing Unicode code points
contained in cutset removed.

---

`trimRightFunc(s str, f func(char) bool) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s with all trailing Unicode code points
c satisfying f(c) removed.

---

`trimSpace(s str) <str>`

Returns a slice of the string s, with all leading and trailing white
space removed, as defined by Unicode.

---

`trimSuffix(s str, suffix str) <str>`

Returns s without the provided trailing suffix string. If s doesn't end
with suffix, s is returned unchanged.

---

`trunc(s str, maxLen int; emph="...") <str>`

Truncate s to maxLen concatenated with emph.

---

`slitWords(s str|rawstr) <array>`

Split words by spaces using regex `\s+`.
If s is rawstr, returns Array of Rawstr, otherwise, Array of Str.

---

`truncWords(s str|rawstr, max int; emph="...", atlimit=off) <str|rawstr>`

Truncate words in s to maxLen concatenated with emph. If atlimit is Falsy,
limits at word count equals to max, otherwise at length of s equals to max.

## See also

For a runnable example, see `samples/stdlib/use_strings.gad`.
